[Flink-32356][doc] Add doc for procedure (#23130)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/dev/table/procedures.md

specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Procedures

Flink Table API & SQL empowers users to perform data manipulation or administrative tasks with procedures. Procedures can run FLINK jobs with `StreamExecutionEnvironment` provided, which make procedures more powerful and flexible.

## Implementation Guide

To call a procedure, the procedure should be provided by a catalog. To provide procedures in a catalog, you must implement a procedure and then return the procedure
in method `Catalog.getProcedure(ObjectPath procedurePath)`. The following steps will guild how to implement a procedure and provide it in a catalog.

### Procedure Class

An implementation class must implement the interface `org.apache.flink.table.procedures.Procedure`.

The class must be declared `public`, not `abstract`, and should be globally accessible. Thus, non-static inner or anonymous classes are not allowed.

### Call Methods

The interface doesn't provide any method，you have to define a method named `call` in which you can implement the logic of the procedure.
The methods must be declared `public` and take a well-defined set of arguments. 

Please note:

> * The first parameter of the method `call` should always be `ProcedureContext` which provides the method `getExecutionEnvironment` to get a `StreamExecutionEnvironment` to enable to run a Flink Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The first parameter of the method `call` should always be `ProcedureContext` which provides the method `getExecutionEnvironment` to get a `StreamExecutionEnvironment` for running a Flink Job
```

The logic for validating input arguments and deriving data types for both the parameters and the result of a procedure is summarized under the term _type inference_.

Flink's procedures implement an automatic type inference extraction that derives data types from the procedure's class and its `call` methods via reflection. If this implicit reflective extraction approach is not successful, the extraction process can be supported by annotating affected parameters, classes, or methods with `@DataTypeHint` and `@ProcedureHint`. More examples on how to annotate procedures are shown below.

Note: although the return type in `call` method must be array type `T[]`, if use `@DataTypeHint` to annotate the return type , it's actually expected to annotate the component type of the array type, which is actually `T`.

#### Automatic Type Inference

The automatic type inference inspects the procedure's class and `call` methods to derive data types for the arguments and result of a procedure. `@DataTypeHint` and `@ProcedureHint` annotations support the automatic extraction.

> For a full list of classes that can be implicitly mapped to a data type, see the [data type extraction section]({{< ref "docs/dev/table/types" >}}#data-type-extraction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full list of classes that can be implicitly mapped to a data type, please refer to the [data type extraction section]({{< ref "docs/dev/table/types" >}}#data-type-extraction).
```

class OverloadedFunction extends Procedure {

  def call(context: ProcedureContext, a: Int, b: Int): Array[Row] = {
    Array(Row.of("Sum", Int.box(a + b)))
  }

  // overloading of arguments is still possible
  def call(context: ProcedureContext): Array[Row] = {
    Array(Row.of("Empty args", Int.box(-1)))
  }
}

// decouples the type inference from evaluation methods,
// the type inference is entirely determined by the function hints
@ProcedureHint(
  input = Array(new DataTypeHint("INT"), new DataTypeHint("INT")),
  output = new DataTypeHint("INT")
)
@ProcedureHint(
  input = Array(new DataTypeHint("BIGINT"), new DataTypeHint("BIGINT")),
  output = new DataTypeHint("BIGINT")
)
@ProcedureHint(
  input = Array(),
  output = new DataTypeHint("BOOLEAN")
)
class OverloadedProcedure extends Procedure {

  // an implementer just needs to make sure that a method exists
  // that can be called by the JVM
  @varargs
  def eval(context: ProcedureContext, o: AnyRef*): Array[AnyRef]= {
    if (o.length == 0) {
      Array(Boolean.box(false))
    }
    Array(o(0))
  }
}

```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Return Procedure in Catalog

> After implement a procedure, the catalog can then return the procedure in method `Catalog.getProcedure(ObjectPath procedurePath)`. The following example shows how to return it in a catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After implementing a procedure, the catalog can then return the procedure in method `Catalog.getProcedure(ObjectPath procedurePath)`. The following example shows how to return it in a catalog.
```
